Friendship is the most important in life - opinion essay

There are a lot of values people are inclined to consider the most important in life. One can believe that true love is the most vital, other will point at family or money. My conviction is that friendship is the most fundamental value in life.

The first argument for considering friendship as the most important value is that having friends is the most fundamental and widespread people's need. It can look like platitude, but the truth is, that everybody needs friends to feel secure, important, worthful and accepted. Neither family, nor money can assure that. The awareness that there is a person one can always count on, gives him general self-confidence.

Considering a real friendship it can be clearly said that friends know each other the best. Thanks to this, friends can be really helpful in solving problems and making decisions, when we are confused and indecisive. Their position is the best to do help as they have a large knowledge about us and our situation and they are more reasonable (because they are not emotionally involved). They can be both, empathic and objective. Due to this, their suggestions are always worthy of consideration and often helpful.

The opponents of my view argue that friendship cannot be the most important in life as there are some individuals, who do not have any friends and do not need them. It is only partly true. People, who claim they are happy without friends next to them, are mostly liars who do not want to fess up to failure on the field of friendship. There are, of course, some individuals who really do not suffer from the lack of friends, but these are recluses. As they are not a numerous part of the society, they can be treated as the exceptions which confirm the rule.

In conclusion, it seems reasonable to claim that friendship is one of the vital values in life. For the mentioned arguments I firmly believe that friendship is the greatest of them all. Friends assure us in problematic situations, enjoy our happiness and are able to show appropriate point of view, when we feel adrift. And that is what we all need.